# Current Knowledge

## Proficient

I feel proficient in a general understanding of data and statistical learning, which involves around building a function that can be used for prediction and inference based on the given dataset to build a model and draw conclusions. I am comfortable with general concepts such as estimating the function using parametric and non-parametric methods and interpreting model interoperability. I am also confident in the linear regression chapter of the ISL textbook. Likewise, I have hands-on experience working with regression models, estimating the coefficients, assessing the model's accuracy, and interpreting the statistics results using R and Python programming. Most of these experiences are accumulated through my previous work experience and classes, including Statistics with R, Data Mining, and Multivariate Data Analysis. The ISL textbook and class activities were also very helpful in refreshing these concepts and providing deep dive into the concepts.

## Aware

I am aware of a general understanding of the relationship between model accuracy and its interoperability. I know that, in general, an increase in the model’s interoperability will decrease its accuracy and vice-versa. However, I often have difficulty finding the balance between accuracy and interoperability. Should we choose a simple linear regression model because its highly interpretable but less accurate or a non-linear model such as neural networks or support vector machines, which sometimes can be more accurate but less interpretable? I also understand multiple linear regression well, but I often have trouble selecting the important variables. I understand that various variables, such as Akaike Information Criterion (AIC), Adjusted R-Square, etc., can help us choose the best model, including forward and backward selection methods. As I continue learning through the class, I want to enhance my knowledge of these concepts and apply them in mini projects.

## Unaware

Before taking STA631, I have some knowledge of ethics, gender, race, and bias from my Ethics and Professionalism class, but I haven’t had a chance to deep dive into these concepts and apply in real life. After reading the first chapter, “The Power Chapter,” and skim reading the table of content of Data Feminism by D’lgnazio and F. Klien, I found the idea of taking a feminist approach to recognize the crucial role of power and bias in shaping the data quite fascinating. I want to understand how to take a feminist approach in data analysis, minimize biases and similar challenges that come with it, and practice data feminism in actual datasets/projects to create a more equitable society and promote transparency, inclusivity, and accountability.
